doc/design_pattern_decisions.md, before:

# Design Pattern Decisions

This section explains why we chose the design patterns we are using in the code. 


- Behavioral Patterns
    - [x] **Guard Check**: Ensure that the behavior of a smart contract and its input parameters are as expected.
    - [ ] State Machine: Enable a contract to go through different stages with different corresponding functionality exposed.
    - [x] **Oracle**: Gain access to data stored outside of the blockchain.
    - [ ] Randomness: Generate a random number of a predefined interval in the deterministic environment of a blockchain.
- Security Patterns
    - [x] **Access Restriction**: Restrict the access to contract functionality according to suitable criteria.
    - [ ] Checks Effects Interactions: Reduce the attack surface for malicious contracts trying to hijack control flow after an external call.
    - [ ] Secure Ether Transfer: Secure transfer of ether from a contract to another address.
    - [x] **Pull over Push**: Shift the risk associated with transferring ether to the user.
    - [ ] Emergency Stop: Add an option to disable critical contract functionality in case of an emergency.
- Upgradeability Patterns
    - [ ] Proxy Delegate: Introduce the possibility to upgrade smart contracts without breaking any dependencies.
    - [ ] Eternal Storage: Keep contract storage after a smart contract upgrade.
- Economic Patterns
    - [ ] String Equality Comparison: Check for the equality of two provided strings in a way that minimizes average gas consumption for a large number of different inputs.
    - [ ] Tight Variable Packing: Optimize gas consumption when storing or loading statically-sized variables.
    - [ ] Memory Array Building: Aggregate and retrieve data from contract storage in a gas efficient way.

[Reference](https://fravoll.github.io/solidity-patterns/)

## Bahavioral Patterns

### Guard Check

See Access Restriction

### Oracle

For now, we **mock** an Oracle providing functions to:
- declare an event
- list all registered events
- get the latest event
- declare an event outcome
- get the outcome of an event

Next up, we will interconnect with an existing Oracle that makes available on-chain the results of sport events.

[Reference](https://fravoll.github.io/solidity-patterns/oracle.html)

## Crypto-Currency

We use **DAI** as a crypto-currency.

## DeFi

In this POC, we do not use a real DeFi Service but stub one.  
But next up, we plan to integrate with Compound, AAVE.
This is one of the first topics on our roadmap.


## Security Patterns

### Access Restriction

We restrict access to key functions of our smart-contracts where only the owner ie. the one who deployed them can run them.  
Only the owner of the `Bet` contract can call the functions to set the address of the third party contracts it interacts with:
- `BetOracle`: `setOracleAddress` 
- `DefiPool`: `setDefiAddress`
Only the owner of the `BetOracle` contract can call the functions to:
- declare a new sport event
- declare the oucome of a registered event

We use a *Guard Check Pattern** via `onlyOwner` of [Openzeppelin's `Ownable` contract](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/blob/v4.0.0/contracts/access/Ownable.sol) for this purpose.

[Reference](https://fravoll.github.io/solidity-patterns/access_restriction.html)

## Pull over Push

We use *Pull over Push* so that players handle withdrawal (stake, gains) on their own.

[Reference](https://fravoll.github.io/solidity-patterns/pull_over_push.html)

## Tech

### Solidity version 0.8

We have decided to switch to the latest Solidity version (0.8+) since OpenZeppelin supports it.
 **[Solidity version `0.8.3`**](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/tag/v0.8.3) as it is fixes an important bug in 0.8.2 
> Optimizer: Fix bug on incorrect caching of Keccak-256 has been fixed

### Repository and Source Code

We have a **mono-repo, that** is a single repository.
It **entails both the front-end and back-end** source code.

### Deployment

The ReactJS **front-end** (DApp) is automatically **[deployed on Heroku](../README.md#deploy-front-end)** each time the `master` branch is pushed.

Commit message:

Doc: design decision, explain that soldiiy version 0.8 frees us from using OZ SafeMath

doc/design_pattern_decisions.md, after:

# Design Pattern Decisions

This section explains why we chose the design patterns we are using in the code. 


- Behavioral Patterns
    - [x] **Guard Check**: Ensure that the behavior of a smart contract and its input parameters are as expected.
    - [ ] State Machine: Enable a contract to go through different stages with different corresponding functionality exposed.
    - [x] **Oracle**: Gain access to data stored outside of the blockchain.
    - [ ] Randomness: Generate a random number of a predefined interval in the deterministic environment of a blockchain.
- Security Patterns
    - [x] **Access Restriction**: Restrict the access to contract functionality according to suitable criteria.
    - [ ] Checks Effects Interactions: Reduce the attack surface for malicious contracts trying to hijack control flow after an external call.
    - [ ] Secure Ether Transfer: Secure transfer of ether from a contract to another address.
    - [x] **Pull over Push**: Shift the risk associated with transferring ether to the user.
    - [ ] Emergency Stop: Add an option to disable critical contract functionality in case of an emergency.
- Upgradeability Patterns
    - [ ] Proxy Delegate: Introduce the possibility to upgrade smart contracts without breaking any dependencies.
    - [ ] Eternal Storage: Keep contract storage after a smart contract upgrade.
- Economic Patterns
    - [ ] String Equality Comparison: Check for the equality of two provided strings in a way that minimizes average gas consumption for a large number of different inputs.
    - [ ] Tight Variable Packing: Optimize gas consumption when storing or loading statically-sized variables.
    - [ ] Memory Array Building: Aggregate and retrieve data from contract storage in a gas efficient way.

[Reference](https://fravoll.github.io/solidity-patterns/)

## Bahavioral Patterns

### Guard Check

See Access Restriction

### Oracle

For now, we **mock** an Oracle providing functions to:
- declare an event
- list all registered events
- get the latest event
- declare an event outcome
- get the outcome of an event

Next up, we will interconnect with an existing Oracle that makes available on-chain the results of sport events.

[Reference](https://fravoll.github.io/solidity-patterns/oracle.html)

## Crypto-Currency

We use **DAI** as a crypto-currency.

## DeFi

In this POC, we do not use a real DeFi Service but stub one.  
But next up, we plan to integrate with Compound, AAVE.
This is one of the first topics on our roadmap.


## Security Patterns

### Access Restriction

We restrict access to key functions of our smart-contracts where only the owner ie. the one who deployed them can run them.  
Only the owner of the `Bet` contract can call the functions to set the address of the third party contracts it interacts with:
- `BetOracle`: `setOracleAddress` 
- `DefiPool`: `setDefiAddress`
Only the owner of the `BetOracle` contract can call the functions to:
- declare a new sport event
- declare the oucome of a registered event

We use a *Guard Check Pattern** via `onlyOwner` of [Openzeppelin's `Ownable` contract](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/blob/v4.0.0/contracts/access/Ownable.sol) for this purpose.

[Reference](https://fravoll.github.io/solidity-patterns/access_restriction.html)

## Pull over Push

We use *Pull over Push* so that players handle withdrawal (stake, gains) on their own.

[Reference](https://fravoll.github.io/solidity-patterns/pull_over_push.html)

## Tech

### Solidity version 0.8

We have decided to switch to the latest Solidity version (0.8+) since OpenZeppelin supports it.  
This version brings in native handling of arithmetic overflow and underflow and reverts the transaction in this case. 
We can forget about using Openzeppelin's `SaFeMath` library.

### Repository and Source Code

We have a **mono-repo, that** is a single repository.
It **entails both the front-end and back-end** source code.

### Deployment

The ReactJS **front-end** (DApp) is automatically **[deployed on Heroku](../README.md#deploy-front-end)** each time the `master` branch is pushed.
